

Gather Supplies



Before you start a game of Monsterhearts, you’ll need to do some setup. First, arrange a dedicated time to play with 2-4 of your friends. Be clear on how big of a time commitment you’re expecting.


This chapter assumes that if you’re the person doing the preparation and teaching work, you’ll also be the MC. As such, this chapter is addressed to the MC. This is the most common setup, but it’s also totally possible to have different people taking on each of these roles.
There’s some printing to do before getting together.
Start by choosing the Skins that you want to present at the table. These are the monster archetypes that players can choose from, and each serves as a workbook to set up and play a character. Print and fold the Skins you’ll be using. If you’re not sure which Skins to include, start with the basic set contained within this book: the Fae, the Ghost, the Ghoul, the Hollow, the Infernal, the Mortal, the Queen, the Vampire, the Werewolf, and the Witch. If you visit the website you’ll see a few more options, like the Chosen and the Serpentine.
You’ll also need to print off the MC Handout, and a copy of the Player Handout for each player.
You may also be interested in printing off a Small Town - one of the single-page settings for the game that help you get started playing as quickly as possible. If you choose a Small Town, it’ll tell you which 5-6 Skins to bring to the table.
All these materials can be found at www.buriedwithoutceremony.com/monsterhearts



You’ll also need pencils, erasers, and dice (the regular kind with six sides). At a minimum, you need two dice, but two per player may be preferable.
