Explain Premise and Roles



Once your group of players has arrived and is settled, start things off by explaining the premise of the game.
Everyone at the table probably already knows what they showed up for, but it’s still helpful to ensure that everyone is on the same page and in the right head space. If you’re not sure what to say, you can read the teaser from the opening pages of this book.
Introduce your own role as MC. While everyone else is in charge of playing a main character, your job is more expansive. Your role is distinct, and has its own set of rules to support it. You might say something like: “Each of you is going to create a character, a teenage monster of some kind. This is your main character, and your role is to play them with curiosity and fierceness. My role in the game is different. I’m the Master of Ceremonies, or MC. As the MC, I will be playing all the side characters in the world. I’ll be your teachers, parents, and classmates. On top of that, it’s my job to set scenes and introduce twists. I play by a different set of rules, but ultimately I’m here to help make sure your characters’ stories are interesting.”


Explain that everyone shares the same agenda when they sit down to play Monsterhearts, including the MC.
Name the four parts of that agenda: make each main character’s life not boring, keep the story feral, say what the rules demand, and say what honesty demands.
If players want to know more about these phrases, explain them in whatever words come naturally to you, or read aloud from pages 9-12.

