Establish Setting



If you’ve already introduced a Small Town, skip this step. Otherwise, it’s time to establish more details about the setting, now that we have a broad sense of who the main characters are.
Start by getting input from the players about what setting details are already implied or required by virtue of the Skins chosen. If there’s a Werewolf, does the game need to be set in a heavily forested area?
If there’s a Selkie, does it need to be oceanside? If there’s a Witch, does that player dream of a particular practitioner community in the local underground economy? Maybe you need bodegas with backroom Santeria practitioners, or a mountain village in the rural northwest where neopagan bonfires take place at every lunar event. Let the main characters serve as a starting place for deciding where the game will be set.
Collectively establish a vague idea. Then, as MC, turn to the player on your left. Ask them a question about the setting. Proceed to the next player, working your way clockwise around the table. If after one round you feel satisfied, move on. If it feels like your setting is still bare and underdeveloped, go around the table once more. It’s fine for people to interject ideas and riff off one another, but make sure that the person you ask a question to has the final say. Now is a great time to nudge the social dynamics at the table, and a welltimed “okay, these are all great ideas, but ultimately I asked Kate this question, and I want to hear Kate’s answer” can go a long way toward ensuring that everyone has equal input.

