Discuss Roleplaying

Before moving on to teaching everyone about the nitty-gritty mechanics of the game, it’s important to establish some context: roleplaying is a conversation, the conversation is broken into scenes, the MC has a unique role in that conversation, and the rules exist to sculpt the story as well as shake it up at key moments.
How to talk through that context really depends on your players’ existing levels of experience with this sort of game. If everyone at the table has already played games that are strikingly similar in theme and structure to Monsterhearts, then you can get away with simply reading the above list aloud and then moving on. In most cases, you’ll want to say a little bit more.
If the people you’re playing with are new to roleplaying games, be thorough as you build this context. Even if it’s second nature to you at this point, because you’ve played a hundred different games and own dozens of fancy dice, don’t overlook the importance of building a foundation with new players.
Talk about what roleplaying is, and provide an example of how two people might go back-and-forth to play out a scene together.

If you’re playing with people who are veteran roleplayers, but who have mostly stuck to adventure games and the high fantasy genre, emphasize what’s different here. Monsterhearts isn’t about rallying together as a party. It’s about exploring relationships and internal strife. It’s not exactly player-versus-player, but it is certainly a game where characters hurt one another, make mistakes, and navigate social fallout.
Part of your job is to do your best to make the game accessible and intelligible to everyone at the table. Try to adjust your teaching style to accommodate the needs of the people you’re playing with.

