

Discuss Moves and Strings



Explain what a move is, how it emerges from the conversation, and how the results of the move feed back in to that same conversation. Explain how rolling dice and adding up scores works. Explain the broad differences between results of 10 up, 7 to 9, and 6 or less. Mention that there are basic moves that every main character shares, and additional options available to each Skin.

This is a great time to make sure that everyone has a Player Handout in front of them, directing their attention to the list of basic moves. Answer any questions that people have.
Mention that as the MC you don’t have moves, and instead your guidelines and rules are about reacting to the things that their characters say and do. Mention that you’ll mostly be setting up situations but that occasionally – particularly if they roll 6 or less on a move -- you’ll also bring them crashing down. Reactions are explained on page 92, but all you need to say to the other players at this point is a brief mention of the fact that you play by a different set of rules.
Explain what Strings are, both symbolically and mechanically. You can read from page 16 if you’re not sure how best to explain.

At this point, your players have just taken in a lot of information, and it’s a perfect time to consolidate that information with an example. Using the names of the main characters being created around the table, launch into an example of Turning Someone On. Pick up dice, suggest a potential Hot score that the character might have, and roll. Explain how the character might gain a String through the move, and then give an example of how they might later spend it using Pulling Strings to tempt someone to do what they want. This example will help to synthesize a lot of different mechanics all
