at once: conversational flow, a move trigger, rolling dice, the way that sexuality is handled in this game, the taking and spending of Strings, and how power dynamics shift between characters throughout play.

Choose Stats and Moves After discussing Moves and Strings, direct the players to select their stats as well as their Skin Moves. These choices can be made in either order, and can potentially inform one another.
Each Skin has two potential lines of stats. Players should choose the one they want, and cross out the other. They’re both good choices given the nature of the Skin, but point toward different sets of strengths and flaws. If a player seems uncertain, reassure them that there’s no wrong choice.
On the inside right page of the character sheet, there is a list of Skin Moves. Each Skin has slightly different instructions for choosing their moves, given in italics at the top of the list. For example, with some Skins you start out with an already-selected move and get to choose one more. The Infernal and The Witch are also prompted to choose a couple other things (Bargains and Hexes respectively).

Ask that once someone has made all their choices, they share them aloud. Players don’t need to read the word-for-word text of each move, but a little bit of explanation is always appreciated. For example, someone might say, “As the Werewolf, I chose Heightened Senses and Unstable. So I have a super keen awareness of my surroundings, but I sometimes lose it and wolf out.”

