

Teach Reactively



It can be tempting to explain every single mechanic upfront, and to point out all their interactions and implications, but doing so isn’t necessary. At this point, you’ve already given players a solid foundation of understanding about how the game operates. Shift to teaching reactively, answering questions as they arise, and informing players about new mechanics as they encounter them.

Some of the mechanics are quite straightforward and intuitive, and so little explanation is required even when they do come up in play for the first time. When someone takes 1 Forward for the first time, simply point out the spot on the character sheet where they can record it. The next time they roll dice, mention that they cross it off and add +1 to their roll. You only need to say more if players ask.
In other cases, the mechanics are a little less intuitive and will need more explanation. For example, the first time that someone asks about Conditions or one is about to be given out during play, explain how they function mechanically and what they reflect about the teenage social world. Turn to page 31 if you need help explaining.
The first time that someone earns an experience point, make sure to show them where to record it. You don’t need to explain advancement right away, unless someone asks about it. The next few times that a roll is failed, it can be helpful to remind the player to mark experience – it’s a rule that can easily be overlooked if only mentioned once.

