Establish Backstories

Once everyone has chosen their stats and moves, make sure all of the main characters have been introduced.
Encourage each player to share a few details about their character’s personality and family life. Let questions bubble up if there are any.
Now that the whole table has a handle on who the main characters are, it’s time to establish their Backstories. Backstories are located on the inside left page of the character sheet. Anyone can volunteer to go first, with the exception of the Mortal. If there’s a Mortal, they always go last.
Turn to whoever volunteered to go first, and explain how to set up their Backstory and record Strings. You can say: “When it’s your turn, read out the text for Your Backstory. You’ll need to make some decisions that involve Strings being given out. You’ll gain some Strings on other characters, and others will gain Strings on you. Don’t try to keep track of who has Strings on you - it’s a lot of bookkeeping and it’s not necessary. Just keep track of the Strings you have on others.” Point out that there is a place to record Strings on their character sheet, and suggest some ways to record gaining and using those Strings.

Players should usually choose other main characters for the prompts in their Backstories, rather than side characters controlled by the MC. The more people there are at your table, the more important this becomes.
That said, some Backstories clearly reference side characters controlled by the MC, like the Infernal’s dark power or the Queen’s clique.

