

Set Up Seating Chart



The seating chart depicts a high school homeroom, showing where everybody sits and how they are seen by others. The seating chart is important for a few reasons: it introduces new characters, it allows you to establish additional relationships, and it draws out the petty high school drama early.


The MC is in charge of the seating chart process, but it depends on back-and-forth collaboration. The MC starts by drawing a simple classroom - a teacher’s desk at the front, and several rows of student desks. The ideal is three rows of five, or four rows of four, despite the fact that real high school classrooms typically have double that many desks. Each desk should be a square that you can write a name and details inside, and the squares should be drawn as big as your paper will allow.
The process of filling in the seating chart brings to life one of the MC’s Principles: ask provocative questions and build on the answers. A great starting point is to turn to the players and ask, “Which one of you is the most popular?” Give that player first pick of where their character sits. After that, maybe ask, “And who sits next to you, right here?” Tap the next desk. Pencil that name in and then turn to the next player. “So, why is this Todd character so untrustworthy?” Skip between players, asking questions that tease out drama, insecurities, talents, and relationships. In addition to their name, ask two questions about each character, and ask them of different players. Take this opportunity to create conflicting accounts and conflicting interests.
This will help you create messy triangles between characters during play, and ensure that no relationship exists in a vacuum. Write down the two details about the character in that little box, alongside their name, then move on and fill another desk.
