Responsibilities Words have a lot of power. In a game like Monsterhearts, your words have the power to cause harm, just as much as they have the power to delight.
When you play a roleplaying game, your words carry with them three circles of responsibility. The innermost circle is a responsibility to yourself. It’s important that you feel safe, that you set boundaries, and that you continue to check in with whether you’re feeling okay. The middle circle is a responsibility to the other people at the table (and others in the room).
It’s important that you listen to their boundaries, assess their reactions, and collaborate to create something awesome together. The outermost circle is a responsibility to the people you are portraying, both the fictional characters and the people who inspired them.
It’s important to remember that all people have agency, strength, and complexity, even if we can’t see it clearly from wherever we’re standing. It’s our responsibility to find the agency, strength, and complexity that exist within our characters, and to demonstrate it to everyone else at the table.




These are our responsibilities: to ourselves, to the others at the table, and to the people we’re portraying.
They’re a series of nested circles, with a responsibility to ourselves at the core.
We’re going to make mistakes along the way. Being responsible doesn’t require an absence of mistakes.
It does involve a sincere recognition of our mistakes, though, and an attempt to rememdy them. This can even be part of why we play Monsterhearts - to test the waters, exploring human urges and fears, to make mistakes and learn from them. To safely explore that sort of terrain, we must be responsible and not callous.

