

Setting Boundaries

Ch. 3: Keeping Your Heart Safe

The tricky thing is that we’re constantly learning about our own boundaries. They change and evolve in response to what we need to feel safe and what we want to experience in a given moment.


Sometimes it’s helpful to name boundaries upfront, before the first scene of the game. When you think about the kind of story you’ll be telling with Monsterhearts, if there’s an element of that story that you find particularly upsetting or triggering, you can ask to leave it off the table altogether. Some themes and elements are too thoroughly woven into the mechanics to be dodged, but others are easy enough to separate out. When I play, I usually ask that studentteacher sexual relationships of any kind be off limits.
Think also about the individual Skins that each player is considering playing. Skins tend to center on certain patterns of dysfunction or crisis. The Vampire centers on consent issues and emotional denial, while the Ghoul centers on addiction and erratic violence. Each Skin brings a different array of problematic content to the table. If a Skin is centered on an issue you find upsetting or triggering, one strategy is to ask that it be left off the table. Another is to talk to the player considering the Skin, and let them know where your boundaries are in terms of those issues, and let them make a choice about whether they are prepared to play that Skin while maintaining those boundaries. A third option is that if you feel concerned about a particular Skin, you can opt to play it yourself, ensuring that it is handled in a way you find honest and acceptable.
Boundaries let your fellow players know what story elements you don’t want to approach, but it can be really helpful to state the opposite as well: what types of problematic content you’re specifically interested in exploring through play.
