Stating boundaries before you start play isn’t a replacement for evaluating them during play.
Throughout play it’s important to check in with yourself. Pay attention to how you’re feeling about the contents of the scene. Does an event in the game leave you feeling panicked, trapped, hurt, or mistrustful?
It may be time to express some new boundaries or request a new approach.



You’ve spent your whole life collecting tools and strategies for expressing boundaries and keeping yourself safe. Don’t feel limited to using new tools and mechanics introduced at the gaming table. New tools introduced at the table exist to make communicating your boundaries easier, not to replace the self-care techniques you already know and use. The biggest strength of these tools, like the X-Card, is that they provide the group with a common language for dealing with player concerns.
Since Monsterhearts is a game that thrives on problematic relationships and perspectives, it can sometimes be tricky to know where to draw your lines. In this context, there’s good discomfort and bad discomfort. Part of the allure of Monsterhearts is stumbling through that good discomfort - like one does with a well-crafted horror movie. But in order to do that, you need to sort out which feelings of discomfort are exciting to explore, and which leave you feeling unsafe. It’s up to you to determine how discomforted you want to feel, and where your boundaries lie.


You may find that boundaries shift during play. What began as an exciting and provocative topic might turn into an unsettling and undesired one. Good discomfort can become bad discomfort. The inverse is true, too – what initially seemed painful or undesirable may become interesting and safe to explore.

