Fading to Black



Another tool at your disposal comes from film: fading to black. Sometimes there’s a plot twist that you’re okay with, but you don’t want to narrate it out ‘on screen’. In that case, you’re always welcome to say, “Hey y’all, I’d like to fade to black at this point.”
Typically that’s all that needs to be said, because it will be clear to everyone at the table that the characters go on to have sex, or commit some act of violence, or whatever the case might be.
If you fade to black as two characters start having sex, their sex moves still take effect (presuming they would if you continued to narrate on in vivid detail).
Laeli comes up to Cassidy in the locker room, after a soccer practice. “Hey, I heard about how you called Vic out, like, after she attacked Gerard. That was really solid. I’m still not entirely sure why you stood up for him like that, but I wanted to say thank you.”


Cassidy takes a slight step in to Laeli, putting a hand on her arm. “I mean, in a way, I did it for you. Because Gerard is yours. And even if I don’t particularly like him, I still want you to have all the things you want.”
Laeli feels her breath catch a little bit, meeting Cassidy’s intense gaze. Soon enough, the two girls are making out in the locker room.
Lorraine narrates how Laeli lifts her shirt up over her head, and then nervously moves to help Cassidy out of hers. Gabriela decides that this is as far as she wants to hear the narration go, and suggests that they fade to black. “Sounds good,” Lorraine and Cody agree. “Our characters probably have sex, yeah? What’s your sex move?”

