

Breathing

Ch. 3: Keeping Your Heart Safe

When you play Monsterhearts, take breaks. After an intense scene, give people a minute to crack jokes and release some of their feelings. Throughout the session, at least once or twice, call for a water break where people actually leave the table. When you finish a Season, follow the advice in the text and play a different game as a palette cleanser before deciding whether you will return to Monsterhearts.


Breaks give you room to breathe, to reflect upon how the contents of each scene made you feel, and to think more about the boundaries that you’ve expressed.
If you are unsatisfied with the direction the story is moving in, breaks let you decide upon an approach or response - do you talk about it with the other players, play your character differently, or excuse yourself from the game? Maybe you realize that you need to say, “hey folks, that scene was really emotional and scary for me, but I’m glad it happened the way it did.”

Recovering Monsterhearts has the potential to leave people feeling hurt. What should you do when this happens to you?
Since you know yourself better than anyone else could, you are the ultimate authority on your own needs in that moment. This guide can offer strategies and suggestions, but none of it trumps your own intuition.


As mentioned earlier, you have three circles of responsibility: to yourself, to the other people at your table, and to the people you’re portraying. The innermost circle is your first priority. Your safety comes first. Maybe you don’t have the capacity to do more than take care of yourself in that moment. That’s okay.
Move outward as you are able.
