Remember that you can ask people to pause. If you don’t, they might keep rolling forward while you remain stuck in a past moment, still trying to sort out your feelings. Sometimes it’ll be unclear what you need from a situation. Your needs are valid even if you don’t yet know what they are, and asking people to pause momentarily can help you get more clarity. If you see others looking distressed, you can check in with them, or ask to pull something from the fiction on their behalf.



If you’re playing in a convention environment, people might be reticent or unwilling to talk through your discomforts with you. Since you are your own first priority, you get to make a choice about whether you’re prepared to keep playing, to call for a break, to ask for support, or to excuse yourself from the session.
If you realize that someone else needs support, and they haven’t voiced that yet, be careful not to put them on the spot in a way that adds pressure and anxiety. If you’ve got a tool like the X-Card, you can ask a group question like “Hey, does everyone feel comfortable with that, or should we X-Card it?” You can ask to pause the current scene and suggest that a five-minute break would be good, and use that break to check in with the other player.
There are lots of strategies for recovering a story when it crosses someone’s boundaries, each tailored to a different set of needs. You can take a break and return after you’ve had a moment to digest the turn of events.
You can keep something in the story but fade to black and move on to another scene rather than dwelling any longer. You can remove an element from the story, and ask its author to introduce a replacement instead.
You can stop the game and have a bigger conversation about goals and boundaries. You can brainstorm additional solutions. Sometimes it will be obvious what strategy is needed, sometimes it’ll take a bit more discussion to figure it out.

