Principles



Principles guide the choices you make throughout play, helping you bring the genre and the story to fruition.
They’re best practices to keep in the back of your head, to let seep into the way that you MC. You share the same four-point agenda as everybody else, and your principles are built on top of it. Manifesting them will make sure the game is thematic, compelling, and rife with drama.

• Embrace melodrama.

• Address yourself to the characters, not the players.

• Make monsters seem human, and vice versa.

• Make labels matter.

• Give everyone a messy life.

• Find the catch.

• Ask provocative questions and build on the answers.

• Be a fan of the main characters.

• Treat side characters like stolen cars.

• Give side characters simple, divisive motivations.

• Sometimes, disclaim decision making.


Embrace melodrama Blanket the world in overwrought darkness. If a scene could take place in a cemetery, set it there. In fact, think about setting it there on the night of the full moon, with your vampire queen leaning up against a tombstone to take a drag of her cigarette as the scene starts. Give yourself permission to be campy and melodramatic.

Address yourself to the characters, not the players Once the game starts, address your players by their characters’ names. It’s just a small wording shift, but it will create a more vivid experience at the table, by encouraging them to think and respond as those characters. Each character will become more than a pawn in a game. Instead, they’ll be a conduit for feeling all those melodramatic, beautiful, and hideous teenage things.

