Give everyone a messy life You’ve got all these characters to play - the members of the football team, the guardians and siblings of the monster teens, teachers, librarians, others. It’s important to remember that when these characters are off-screen they don’t just power down or go on standby. They’re off living their lives. That means that they’re sleeping around, stealing money from one another, snooping into matters that don’t concern them, and all the other things that people do.



You don’t need to chart out the days of all of your various characters. But every once in a while, ask yourself what they might be up to. If it’s been a session since you saw Jeremy, wonder what mischief he might have gotten into. Occasionally, surprise the other players by reminding them that every character that touches the fiction has a vibrant and messy life going on, even if we don’t usually see it.

Find the catch When acceptance is offered between two people, look for clues that it might be lopsided or conditional. When one of your side characters offers someone a gift, make sure there’s a twist, or a debt to be repaid. When a character is happy, think about who might be unhappy because of the same things. Salina’s relationship with Jackson might seem blissful and secure, but Rocko’s in the shadows brooding over it. How far would he go to get her back? Find the Rocko in every situation. Then, use your questions and your choice of scenes to draw attention to the catch. Find out which of these catches people are willing to overlook, and which will force their hand.

