Ch. 4: MCing




Ask provocative questions and build on the answers Ask questions all the time. Ask questions in order to build up sensory details (“What does your room smell like?”). Ask questions in order to reveal perspectives (“So, what do you think about this bush party?”).
Ask questions to highlight potential story directions (“Have you and Lorna ever hooked up? Have you ever thought about the possibility?”). Ask questions to reveal insecurities and fears (“Why don’t you want to sneak back into Jake’s place?”). Ask questions to reveal sources of tension (“He’s never seen you with a girl, but Brandon keeps calling you a dyke. Why?”) Whatever answer you get, trust it and build upon it. Add your own details to the answers that players give, and incorporate whatever they say into future descriptions. If someone answers a question with something provocative and interesting, maybe even something that changes the game, go with it. Let their answers steer the story in new and unexpected directions. Ask questions in the hope that you’ll be surprised by what you hear. This is part of how you keep the story feral.

Be a fan of the main characters You share the same agenda as everyone else: make each main character’s life not boring. As the MC, that often means introducing struggle and adversity into their lives. Just remember that your goal is not to thwart them, or to gain some sort of unspoken power over them. The whole reason you’re introducing struggle and adversity is to see how they change under pressure, to watch their brilliance and flaws bubbling up, and to enjoy their story. You’re not here to coddle these characters or to bully them. You’re here to be their fan.

