Treat side characters like stolen cars Think of it like this: between “make each main character’s life not boring” and “keep the story feral”, half of your agenda in this game is to make exciting, messy choices and see what happens next. Your side characters are part of that equation. Treat them like stolen cars on a joyride. You control them for the present moment, but it’s not like you get to keep them when the night’s over. Play them recklessly, and abandon them when they’re dead weight. You don’t necessarily need to kill your darlings, but you do need to accept that they are precarious, auxiliary, and yes, killable. Beyond just accepting it, revel in it.



Give side characters simple, divisive motivations Make your characters straightforward and obvious enough that other players know how to react to them. Give them obvious goals and obvious means to achieve them. Make sure that their goals divide the main characters, pitting them against one another in messy triangles. By making your characters’ motivations transparent, you ensure that the game isn’t about endlessly dragging information out of people. By giving them divisive goals, you help focus the game on the dramatic conflict between the main characters and everyone they encounter in the world. For example: Tommy and Fawzi are main characters who’re dating.
Tommy’s neighbour Luna is a solid friend who loves spending time with him, and is always there to be a sympathetic shoulder when Tommy feels sad. The only problem is she hates Fawzi, and she’s always looking to drive a wedge into their relationship. Luna isn’t that complicated: she wants Tommy all to herself.

