Ch. 4: MCing

The List 
• Put them together.

• Separate them.

• Tell them the possible consequences and ask.

• Inflict harm (as established).

• Enact drastic measures.

• Turn their move back on them.

• Leap to the worst possible conclusion.

• Expose a dangerous secret to the wrong person.

• Take a String on someone.

• Herald the abyss.

• Trigger their Darkest Self.

• At every turn: “What do you do?”

Put them together

Pick two characters with major gripes. Pick two characters that are afraid of one another. Pick a predator and a prey. Pick any interesting combination of characters, and put them together. Set the situation up so that it’ll be difficult for either of them to just walk away gracefully. And then see what happens. If Jack and Huxley got into a furious yelling match the last time that they were in the same room, it’s a great time to have their families get together for a big shared meal. After all, their mothers work together at a law firm that just got an acquittal for a major client, right?
Now they’re pushing tables together at Federici’s. Will Jack and Huxley make it through the scrutiny and awkwardness of a fancy family dinner, or will their tempers flair again?

Separate them

If two characters are working on a science project together, or nervously hooking up, whatever the case might be, separate them. Have a friend call from the ER to demand care. Pull the fire alarm. Figure out how to divide them, and then take advantage of the fact that they are isolated.
