Tell them the possible consequences and ask When one of the main characters is after something, and there are obstacles in their way, you can make it clear what price they’ll need to pay to get what they want. Maybe they’re trying to get into a new club with fake IDs and the bouncer sees through their bluff. He’ll let them in, but it’ll cost them: maybe money, maybe favours. Or instead of a price, it’s a risk: they can try to sneak in the back door, but if they get caught there could be cop trouble or worse. If you’re setting it up, tell them the possible consequences if they go through with their plan. If you’re knocking it down, tell them what is being demanded of them, a little too late to back out now.



Inflict harm Say Rico’s standing in the middle of the courtyard, and one of your undead motorcycle gangsters has a gun pointed at him. Rico takes the stupid way out, and bolts toward shelter. He rolls a 6. You’ve already set it up that Rico’s in danger of getting shot, and a gun would probably do 2 harm at this distance. So, bang. Rico’s been hit for 2 harm, with a bullet tearing into the back of his thigh and dropping him to muddy ground.


Enact drastic measures Imagine there’s a dead sophomore, or mysterious animal sightings by the old mill, or a new drug that some kids are selling between classes. People tend to talk about these things. You know how they say that drastic times call for drastic measures? Introduce some from time to time. Detentions, expulsions, police inquiries, having your phone confiscated, a media crew arriving from the big city to delve deeper into these strange disappearances, smear campaigns carried out by rival cliques, and threats of violence by the school flagpole are all ways that the world might respond to the chaotic drama radiating out from the main characters.

