

Turn their move back on them Often, characters create their own trouble, and all you need to do is take advantage of it. Have their actions create unexpected consequences that put them in dire straits. So, Logan takes a swing at the leader of a gang? That swing knocks her off her feet, and her head lands on the pavement with a dull thud. It’s gushing blood, and she’s not moving. The rest of the gang looks bewildered and furious. Now what?

Leap to the worst possible conclusion

When one of your side characters has an incomplete understanding of the situation (which should be the case most of the time), have them leap to the worst possible conclusion. If Jake’s mom knows that he wasn’t home during Bryah’s murder, and she finds a gun in his bedroom, maybe she becomes convinced that her son is a killer. Have her leap to the worst possible conclusion. Then, communicate those conclusions clearly and directly -- either through a short aside or by framing a new scene about it.

Expose a dangerous secret to the wrong person Sometimes, the wrong person will just happen to witness something. Like, Jake transforms into a werewolf and bounds off into the darkness, and all you need to do is narrate Sergeant Davis standing there, wide-eyed and trembling. Sometimes, the wrong person will finally put together all the clues. Jake’s mom has probably been pulling fur out of the dryer lint trap for months, and noticing strange disturbances, and hearing her son howling like a wild dog late at night. Sooner or later, she realizes what’s happening.

