Ch. 4: MCing

At every turn: “What do you do?”
Whenever you use one of these Reactions, do so to create interesting situations that others can respond to, and then actively invite their response. After every Reaction you introduce, ask this question, over and over again: “What do you do?” Eventually, the question will become so ingrained that players will instinctively leap to answer it before you’ve even gotten the words out. There will be chain reactions, everyone eagerly barrelling forward in the story, spring-boarding off one another’s ideas. Splendid.
Since hooking up with her, Cassidy has gotten all territorial about Laeli. When everyone in science class is told to grab a lab partner and get to work, Cassidy tries to swoop in and claim Laeli. Gerard butts in to say, “Sorry Cass, we’re already working together.” A squabble ensues, and Gerard tries to shut Cassidy down. Gabriella rolls a 5. It’s an opportunity for the MC to react.
The MC decides to put them together, curious to see what happens when Gerard and Cassidy are forced to work as a team. The grumpy science teacher bellows, “Enough! You three are acting like children. Gerard, you’re with Cassidy. Laeli, you can join Jessalyn’s group.
You’ll all pipe down and get to work, or I’m giving you a zero on this project.”
The scene continues forward, with the spotlight following Gerard and Cassidy. The MC asks, “Cassidy, this clueless teacher has you paired up with Gerard now. All the other groups are bustling about and getting to work. I’m curious: what do you do?” Cody thinks about it for a second before replying, “You know, I think this whole situation rubs her the wrong way.
She’s just going to leave. Like, grab her things and walk right out the door.”

