

Side Character Strings



Any character can gain Strings. But Strings always involve a main character, and side characters can’t have Strings on other side characters. As the MC, it’s your job to keep track of the Strings that each of your side characters have gained on the main characters. On the pages where you’re jotting down notes about your characters, make sure to also list any Strings that they hold.
Just like with main characters, a side character having Strings on someone means they have emotional leverage on that person. Spending one of those Strings means they’re cashing in on that emotional leverage in some way.


You can spend a side character’s Strings on a main character in four ways: 
• Offer them an experience point to do what you want.

• Place a Condition on them.

• Add 1 to the harm you’re dealing them.

• Ambush them with a Reaction, setting it up and knocking it down in one fell swoop.
The first three options on this list mirror the list that the other players use for their main characters. The top two are a sort of carrot and stick, tempting people to do your will or punishing them for crossing you. If a side character creates a Condition for a main character through gossip and subterfuge, it’s important to clarify how the main character eventually learns about their new reputation.


The fourth option is a unique tool for you as the MC.
Selecting it means that you can come out of nowhere with a big plot twist, or push one of your characters into a momentary position of power. Remember, this String represents the power of a specific side character
