

Using the Seating Chart

Ch. 4: MCing

The seating chart is an important MC tool. You create it while setting up to play, as detailed on pages 70-71.
Throughout play, it serves as a bank of opportunities.
When you want to react by putting them together, you can glance down and find a character to toss into the scene. When you want to expose a dangerous secret to the wrong person, the seating chart probably contains just such a person. Not only does it have a host of usable characters, but it lists some juicy gossip about each. Those details are invaluable in helping you put your Principles into motion.


Picture a web built out of all the relationships in the game. If each of the main characters has their own disparate group of friends and crushes, the web doesn’t criss-cross very much. It’s just loose threads.
If everyone is interconnected, with relationships overlapping all over the place, the web is strong and dense. That’s important for three reasons. The first is that it means you have fewer characters to keep track of, which makes your job easier. The second is that when a relationship changes or ends, you don’t want characters to just disappear. Like, if Lu dumps Aseem, the worst thing to happen next would be for Aseem to just sort of fade out of the story. You want Aseem to stick around and make things complicated for Lu. The third reason is that if characters are involved in messy triangles of relationships, then any interaction between two characters inevitably creates ripples. Aseem is best friends with Lu’s best friend. Aseem is on a basketball team with Lu’s lab partner. If Aseem falls into a depressed slump after the breakup, it’s going to affect a lot of people, and that’s going to bring new stress into Lu’s other relationships. Nothing’s tidy.
When you want to put a new character into a scene, look down at the seating chart to see if you’ve already got someone who would fit the bill. Use the seating chart to help build a dense web.
