The First Scene



Chapter 2 outlines how to prepare for your first session, including creating characters and teaching the game to others. At this point, you’ve got a table of eager players and a finished seating chart. Eyes fall upon you expectantly.
There can be pressure and high expectations surrounding that first scene. As a group, you’ve invested 30-60 minutes into getting ready for this moment.
Breathe. The first scene is usually slow to start, and that’s perfectly okay. Relationships reveal themselves, emotions start piling up, and soon enough there will be drama and action.
If you’ve got a perfect first scene in mind, trust your intuition and start there. But in most cases, the best place to frame the first scene is in homeroom. It serves to introduce a lot of characters all at once, and show how they are interrelated at the start of the story. It establishes a sense of normalcy that you can later tilt and dismantle. My first question as MC is often, “Okay, who shows up to class early?” I go from there, with more people filtering in to the scene as it unfolds.


One of your jobs in that first scene (and, to some extent, throughout the whole first session) is to test the waters and see which stories people are actually interested in exploring. When the angry, quiet kid named Butch shoulders his way between two main characters, do they snap at him? If the other characters mostly ignore Butch, then drop it. If one of them chimes in, “Watch where you’re going, dumb fuck” then you have a tense relationship to explore more throughout play.
Framing the first scene in the homeroom means you can test out a lot of different relationships in quick succession, since people need to slide between each other’s desks and borrow each other’s pencils. Look for

