The Big Climax



Throughout the session, scenes will generate loose threads and compelling hooks. The MC’s job is often curatorial, deciding what to follow up on and explore.
Some MCs like to follow the action wherever it goes, and get a lot of input from the other players about where each scene should take place. Others like to be more ruthless and directive, skipping ahead to moments of explosive drama in quick succession. I prefer a balance, but this ultimately comes down to personal style. If you need additional guidance on framing scenes, re-read the section on page 13.
Usually, the story will organically build toward a climactic set of overlapping conflicts. As the MC, you just need to nudge here or there to ensure that everything falls into place at the right time. The Mortal has finally welled up the courage to confess her love to the Queen, but the Queen has other things to worry about: her cult just kidnapped the Werewolf and they’re planning a human sacrifice bonfire in the woods. Something like that.


Since you control scene framing, you have some ability to accelerate or slow down the tempo of the story.
Groups often have an agreed-upon end time for their sessions, either vague (”We usually finish up by ten, but definitely by eleven”) or strict (”This convention slot ends at four”). If your session seems to be gearing up for a grand finale scene, it’s ideal for that scene to start with 40-45 minutes left on the clock. I’m often caught by surprise at how sprawling that last scene can get, and how long it can take. 40-45 minutes ensures that you’ll get through it and reach a brief denouement, and that people won’t be anxiously glancing at the clock throughout the most exciting moments of the game.
Don’t try to tie up every loose thread. Leave some chaos and unanswered questions scattered about the story.
Leave people wanting just a little bit more.

