

Future Sessions

Ch. 4: MCing

Monsterhearts can be played as a one-shot, single session game. But it’s also designed to serve as a game for short campaigns, lasting around 2-5 sessions.


When you return to the table for that second or subsequent session, part of your job as MC is deciding where to pick up the story. The other players might default to the expectation of resuming at the exact moment and situation where the last session left off, but you’re allowed to challenge that expectation.
Maybe you frame the opening scene in homeroom the next morning, or skip ahead two days to Lu and Rocko’s third date. Think about pacing and tempo. If the first session had an arc of rising action that led to a thundering grand finale, it may be prudent to slow down the action and have some re-establishing scenes before the momentum rebuilds. Trust your intuition.
Some plot threads will carry over between sessions.
Others will get tied up neatly. Whenever the momentum of the story starts to slow, consider reincorporating or revisiting those loose threads from past sessions. Since one of your Principles is to give everyone a messy life, it’s fine to have situations change dramatically or become dangerously volatile while the main characters aren’t looking. As you play, jot down enough notes so that you’ll remember what the loose threads are between sessions.
Campaigns of Monsterhearts have a built-in timer, known as Seasons. For a refresher on how Seasons work, see pages 51-52.

