Villains



The player characters are monsters, but they’re also just teenagers. There’s a difference between monsters and, you know, monsters. Real monsters kill people. Real monsters are hardened to the ways that their actions hurt people. Real monsters get what they want. Are the main characters ready to cross that line? Do they even realize that the line exists?
Sometimes, as MC you’ll want to introduce a villainous character to provoke the main characters and learn more about their mettle. Maybe you name-drop Lydia, the vampire queen. Maybe you have a motorcycle gang of werewolves roll into town. Maybe the Fae messes up one too many times, and the Faery King comes to pay a visit.
Introduce villains sparingly. Don’t spoil it by showing off how edgy they are – instead, use it as an opportunity to hold a dark mirror up to the main characters, tempting them and beckoning them to look closer at themselves. Here’s the thing: when you introduce a villain, you’re making a bid for the players’ attention. If they try to brush it off, take a hint and shuffle that villain back out of the story. If they engage excitedly, a whole story arc might emerge.


If you introduce a villain and the players eagerly engage, react accordingly. Give that villain resources and motivations. Have them dangle lucrative promises in front of these vulnerable teenage protagonists. Have them make demands, each one just slightly more insidious than the last. Take your cues from the other players about whether this villain will be part of a fleeting side-story or come to be a driving force in the plot.

