Witch Moves

You start with Sympathetic Tokens and Hex-Casting:

 Sympathetic Tokens You gain power from Sympathetic Tokens - items of personal significance taken from others. Sympathetic Tokens count as Strings.

 Hex-Casting You can cast Hexes. Choose two that you know. To cast them, either expend a Sympathetic Token during a secret ritual, or meet the target’s gaze and chant at them in tongues. Then roll with Dark. On a 10 up, the Hex works, and can easily be reversed. On a 7-9, it works but choose one: 
• the casting does you 1 Harm; 
• the Hex has weird side effects; 
• trigger your Darkest Self.

 Transgressive Magic If your ritual transgresses the community’s moral or sexual standards, add 1 to your HexCasting roll.

 Sanctuary You have a secret place for practicing witchcraft. Add 1 to all rolls you make within this space.

Hexes

Choose two:

 Wither The hexed loses all of their hair, or their teeth start falling out, or their period arrives unexpected and heavy, or their skin gets all sickly yellow and spotty. Whatever the specifics, it’s bad.

 Binding The person cannot physically harm others.

 Ring of Lies Whenever the person attempts to lie, they hear a piercing ringing noise. Big lies will often make their knees buckle and disorient them.
Severe lies can cause harm or even brain damage.

 Watching You enter a deep sleep, and begin to see the world through the eyes of the hexed.
You can feel their reactions to and impressions of what they are seeing.

 Illusions Pick one: snakes and bugs, demonic visages, false prophecies, non-existent subtext. The hexed sees that thing everywhere. You have no control over the exact images or manifestations.
