After Graduation



While Monsterhearts is built on the assumption that the main characters are teenagers who go to high school together, other possibilities exist. You might choose to depart from the high school milieu by focusing on teenagers at a summer camp, members of a local sports team, or twenty-somethings who work together at a fast food place.
While the immediate social context can shift, it still needs to echo the emotional realities of high school.
The main characters need to be in the midst of an uncomfortable life transition, experiencing alienation both within their skin and from the world at large. They need to get sucked into petty social politics, and have it be difficult to simply walk away from dysfunctional relationships. They need to be talked down to by most of the adults in their lives, despite the fact that they are capable and powerful in their own right.


If the main characters are all employees at a fast food place together, maybe their manager is a stodgy, bitter man who relishes the opportunity to flex his paltry authority over others. Maybe irregular, unpredictable shift schedules thwart their ability to form meaningful, healthy relationships outside of work.
As mentioned on page 71, if your characters don’t share a homeroom then you should create a substitute to the seating chart. In the example of the fast food place, it might be the current day’s shift schedule, or seats at a quarterly staff meeting. The important things that a seating chart contributes to the game are ready-to-use side characters, juicy information about them and their community, and a smattering of implied relationships to explore through play.

