




Surveying the Environment The basic moves are more than just a set of actions that matter to the teen monster sex horror genre.
They’re an ecosystem, a responsive environment that shapes the story. Removing one of those moves changes the significance of the others. As an example, Turning Someone On is one of the main ways that characters gain Strings on others, positioning sexuality as a powerful, burgeoning force in these characters’ lives.
Changing the ecosystem by adding more ways to gain Strings will have an impact on how sexuality and sexual identity are woven into the story.
The basic moves tie together all the economies of the game - Strings, Conditions, Harm, and Experience.
Modifying or replacing a move tends to change how a number of those economies work. As an example, if you cut out the rules for Skirting Death, suddenly Harm is a lot more lethal and scary. Characters with a high Volatile stat have more social leverage, because crossing them has more dire consequences. While spending a String to tempt them to do what you want remains an option for controlling others, threatening them with physical violence and holding that String in reserve to add 1 to the harm you deal them becomes a relatively stronger choice. Since gangs increase the amount of harm you deal, spending your advancement on a gang becomes more alluring, which steers the game toward stories of rivalry and blood. When taking a move from another Skin, players might be more likely to eye up the Werewolf. The Ghoul’s Short Rest For The Wicked move also gains a lot of significance and power. Not every group of players will necessarily react the same way, but it’s important to appreciate how changing a single mechanic can create ripples throughout the rest of the design.
