

The Long Example



Gabriella thinks of her character as an impulsive, selfcentered sort. She decides that Gerard doesn’t spend much time reflecting on his decisions, instead leaping forward with a shaky plan that he revises as he goes. And so when Vic tells him that he needs to recruit Laeli for the dark rituals of a diabolical group, Gerard doesn’t hesitate. He heads directly to her.


When he gets to Laeli’s house, he’s still rehearsing all the things he might say to her. He walks in uninvited, too preoccupied to knock, and sees her texting on the couch.
“Laeli, I -” Laeli startles, instinctively hiding her cell phone between couch cushions. “Gerard! Hey, I didn’t realize you were coming over.”
One of the MC’s Principles is to find the catch, and so he’s already looking for ways to sow discord between the two lovers about Laeli’s recent indiscretion. He’s pretty sure he already knows the answer, but just to be sure he turns to Lorraine and asks, “Laeli, who were you just texting?”
He addresses himself to the characters, not the players.
Lorraine answers: “It’s Cassidy. I’m trying to play it cool, but I’ve realized I’m really into her.”
Gerard starts talking too quickly. “Listen, Laeli, I’ve been thinking a lot about our relationship. About how we’re good, yeah, but we don’t really spend a lot of time supporting one another. Like, how you’ve got your writing, and that’s a real passion for you. And for me? It’s magic, being a real practitioner, right?”
“Yeah?” Laeli shifts in her seat, a little bit uncertain where this is going.


“Well, I was thinking that what we should really be doing is supporting one another. Like, embedded journalism.
Working on our crafts alongside each other.”
