Laeli blinks twice, clearly not following. She knits her brow, trying to fill in the blanks. Gerard plunges ahead: “What I’m trying to say is, there’s this group. It’s local, it’s kids from our school. And they want me in their circle. And I want to do it, Laeli, I really want to be there. But I want to be there with you. It’s dark ritual, and I know you don’t believe in that stuff. But I was hoping you’d do it for me, for our relationship. And it’d give you a chance to do more serious writing, like real investigative stuff.”



Gabriela watches Lorraine’s face intently, and then adds, “Gerard is going to spend a String to tempt her to do what I want. So it’s an experience point if you say yes.”
She scribbles in one of the Strings next to Laeli’s name on Gerard’s character sheet, having just used it up.
Laeli shakes her head, slowly and nervously. She chooses her next words carefully. “Listen, Gerard, I think we need to talk.” She’s resisting Gerard’s temptation, and so no experience point is earned. Gerard looks crestfallen. Laeli glances toward the other side of the couch, implying Gerard should sit. “It’s just that, I did something. I want to be direct about it, talking to you. I think you deserve that.”


There’s a tense silence. Silence can be a perfect opportunity for the MC to react (by selecting a Reaction and working it into the conversation), but the scene is already barreling toward melodrama and wounded hearts. And so the MC just leans in eagerly, waiting to see what happens next.
Gerard sits, but refuses to meet Laeli’s eye contact. He stares at his feet, studying the scuff patterns on his combat boots. “It was Cassidy, wasn’t it?” Laeli nods and mumbles yes. Gerard doesn’t need any more information – hindsight fills in the rest.
Now it seems like the two teens are sinking into sullen quietude, and so the MC decides it’s time to react. He puts them together by turning to Cody and saying, “Hey Cassidy, it’s been a few minutes since Laeli sent her last flirty text your way. Have you figured out your response yet?” Cody nods, grinning at the invitation to meddle.

