Ch. 7: Taking Inspiration




Laeli’s phone dings, and then dings again, and then dings a third time. She can’t resist glancing at the lock screen.
The moment she does, Gerard gets up in a huff and moves toward the door.
Laeli jumps up and follows behind him, begging him to stay and talk it through. When she continues to follow him out the door and onto the walkway, he whirls and accosts her. “You don’t get to have it both ways, Lae. You don’t get to run around sleeping with any girl who flashes you a crooked smile, and still keep me on retainer. You don’t even, you – I’m done. I’m fucking done, Laeli.”
Gerard is Shutting Someone Down, and so Gabriela rolls.
The dice are 2 and 2, and Gerard’s Cold stat adds another 1.
The total of 5 means that Gerard is generally unsuccessful.
The MC jumps in to narrate how neighbors are watching, and his voice cracks midway through his temper tantrum.
Since the roll was unsuccessful, it also hands the MC a golden opportunity to react. Josh looks at the list of Reactions and chooses to trigger their Darkest Self.
Gerard feels the dark thrum of magic in his veins, coursing through his heart. The Witch’s Darkest Self involves hexing anyone who slights you, and Gerard certainly feels slighted in this moment.
Gabriela describes how Gerard’s eyes flood with inky blackness, and he starts chanting in a language Laeli doesn’t recognize. She picks up the dice and rolls for Hex-Casting, one of the Witch’s Skin Moves. Gerard is going to cast Ring of Lies on Laeli. The end result is a 9, which involves choosing an option from the list. Gabriela decides that the Hex works, but there are weird side effects. The MC chimes in to suggest, “So, this Hex makes Laeli’s head ring whenever she tells a lie. What if the side effect was that there was a psychic link, so that it actually hurts you both.”
That sounds like a perfect side effect. What could go wrong?


Laeli’s scared and confused by what she sees, but all she really wants is for Gerard to calm down so they can work it all out. “Please, babe, just come back inside?”
